---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technocal Essay
date: 2021-04-25
labels:
  - ITM 352 E5
  - Assignment 2
---
Assignment 2 challenged me a lot. Since I did assignment 2 by myself, I had to come out with the solution and do my own research to deal with the problems except for asking our professor for help. I learned that there are some “difficult” puzzles are not as complex as I thought it would be, I could not find out the solution because I was overthinking. I also learned about how to apply one method/tool in different places for different purposes. It is hard to flexible use the knowledge we learned from class; this requires more practices to do so. <br>
Since I did this assignment on my own, I can easily make my own schedule to work on assignment 2. I followed our class schedule to continuously add new stuff inside. Even though assignment 2 had a lot of works to do, as long as I did it step by step and followed the pattern, it could be done on time. Personally, I think I worked well in making my schedule to finish assignment 2 step by step. <br>
I used to struggle in the match() method and test() method, but I did some research and tests in my server and the html page to figure out the difference between these two methods and how to use them appropriately. Sometimes I could get some new ideas from our lectures and class discussions, they are really helpful to point out some questions that I never think about them.
At first, I thought assignment 2 may be easier than assignment 1 because I have some experience in working on assignment 1. However, I still have a hard time in working on assignment 2. In assignment 2, I had to do a lot of things to design how the server works and connects my html pages with the server. To me, the input validation and error checking parts challenged me a lot. I spent a lot of time to find a way to prevent submission if there is invalid input in the form. Later, I realized that I can use some similar functions in assignment 1 and make some adjustments. Assignment 1 is a good reference for me to review what I used in this webpage, and figure out how to use them in assignment 2. I think I spent around 10% of my time on thinking about how to do assignment 2, 40% of time on coding and 50% on testing and debugging, but I realized this may be wrong. I should spend more time in thinking and understand what I needs to do and the logic behind it. This may help me work more efficient. If I could go back in time and do things differently, I will spend more time in thinking and understanding the logic, then start coding and testing. <br>

If you want to learn more about Assignment 2, <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html">click here</a>.


