---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Something about me
date: 2021-01-14
labels:
  - Accounting
  - MIS
  - Interests
---

My name is QiaoJing Qiu, who is an accounting student in Shidler College of Business. I born and raised in China and moved to Hawaii around five years ago. I can speak Cantonese and Mandarin, and still learning English for now. I graduated from Moanalua High School in 2018, and this is my third year at University of Hawaii.

I want to make MIS as my double major, that is one of the reasons why I took ITM 352. Since I think to learn about coding and programming, and understand how the software and computer work are very useful. Even though I want to be a certificated public accountant (CPA) in the future, to know about technology can help me learn about and use different applications efficiently. In addition, the one of the current trends for accounting students is to choose MIS as their double major or minor, because more and more accounting firms update their technology to protect clients' information and promote working efficiency.

Cooking and listening to music are my two major hobbies. Since I like Asian food, especially Chinese, Japanese and Korean food, cooking is one of my interests. I am not good at cooking, and I can’t make some very tasty food, but I think to prepare food and follow the recipe to cook some simple dishes are very interesting. Currently, because of the COVID pandemic, I always stay at home. During this time, I try to cook more and make it become my skill, so I can cook everything I want to eat when I am at home. Listening to music is my second interests. When I am cooking, I like listening to music including English, Chinese, Korean and Japanese songs.

I did not know anything about MIS before, it will be a challenge for me, but I will try my best and work hard to learn something from this class.
