---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 Reflecting on Assignment 3 Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG
date: 2021-05-13
labels:
  - ITM 352 E5
  - Assignment 3
---
My webpage is a tax preparation webpage, which includes tax service, CPA exam review, tutorials and consultant service. Users can go to different display pages and place their order without logging in their accounts. They can also view their shopping cart information by clicking the shopping cart tab in the navigation bar. However, if they want to check out, they must log in their accounts. Otherwise, the invoice will not be displayed. The system will check if input is valid or not. Only the valid input will be added into the shopping cart. The invalid input will return an error message to the users. 

At first, I plan to add on a html page to allow users edit their account information for extra credit point. However, I did not do it because of the time constraints. I spent a lot of time in fixing previous problems and modify the session information. 

The most proud section in my system is that it will have an alert to display error message in the display page and invoice page, which makes everything become so obvious and clear. The least happy thing in my system is the login page, because it doesn't have the feature of editing account information, it seems like an incomplete login page.

In Assignment 3, I frequently use cookie and session. All of my webpages need to use cookie and session, so I need to modify all of my html pages. Session is really useful to store information. In Assignment 2, I stored order information in the query, which made it so difficult to keep order information. Sometimes the information will be lost when the user transfers to another page. In Assignment 3, I think it takes a lot of time in understanding the code and how it works, and modify it fo my specific design. 

I used to struggle in a service, and I cannot get session information from the server for my html page. Then I tried to do research and figure out the problem, but it did not work. So I just found an alternative solution, which was not good. Later, I scheduled an appoitment with professor and discuss this problem with him. Because there was a small error in the server, it made the whole function become not working. At the end, I realized that I should really understand all the code I used in my webpage; otherwise, there will be some kinds of error hidding inside and I just stuck in it. 

I think I did good in modifying the code for my specific design, and asking questions when I need help. What I did bad is I did not understand all of my codes, especially the function used for getting session information from the server. It took me a lot of time to fix the problem.

Just like Professor said, I need to understand my code before I use it. When there is a problem, I should not just give up right away and look for alternative solution. Instead, I should try to find out what goes wrong and fix the problem. 

If I could go back in time, I will do things differently. I will check the example code and try to understand how they work, then modify them for my own use. Then I can spend more time in doing some extra functions for extra credit.

I think I spent around 30% of time in thinking and planning, 30% of time in writing code and 40% of time in testing and debugging. 

I finished Assignment 3 by myself.

If you want to learn more about Assignment 3, <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/180.Assignment3/experience-Assignment3.html">click here</a>.
